pretty much everyone and their dog has a
side hustle these days and dog walking
or Uber driving might work for some
people but I'm better with tech than I
am with organisms what's a socially
awkward penguin to do hang on I've got
it there's all this broken Tech all over
sites like eBay and Craigslist maybe I
could fix it up and flip it for
profit man where to start I mean I used
to be pretty good at fixing pins so
here's what we're going to do we're
going to buy some four parts am4
processors that don't look too far gone
we're going to set a timer fix them and
find out how much we can pay ourselves
to do this kind of work with minimal
Tools H how about this one this one this
one this one this one this one this one
and this
one well I mean they're not here yet but
while we wait how about we do the Segway
to our sponsor MSI It's Autumn and
leaves aren't the only thing that's
falling it's prices too msi's fall Ready
Halls sale is here to help you save on
your next laptop gaming handheld and
more check out the sale using our Link
in the video description before we could
try to fix anything something already
went wrong we ordered a total of six
CPUs but as you can see I'm holding only
five thankfully the one that didn't show
up was canceled and refunded by the the
seller so we haven't lost any money at
least not yet let's give everybody their
assignments I've never unbent CPU pins
before but I think I'm a good candidate
for this because I'm a fairly handy guy
I'm a fairly DIY guy like I've ran out
of kitchen before I can do things but
I've never done this uh it's been a
while since I've done this but I have
repaired pins on like older CPUs before
and like CPU sockets and motherboards so
I've got some experience at least just
not super recent I have fixed bent pins
oh all right that's about as far as I've
gotten I've never soldered pins my
experience level is pretty low but of
the probably I'd say 10 to 30 CPUs that
I fixed over the years I have above a
90% success rate all right so I get a
50700 x and how many problem pins are
there okay first thing I'll say is these
are really small I could like naked eye
this but it would be a lot harder I'm
grateful for this thing this is actually
a good way to check as you can see
they're all orderly and you can see gaps
between each row so if there's anything
that's walked over you would see it fill
that Gap the only bent pins are on the
corners over here and over here this is
a game changer having it on this thing
there they are Three
Amigos this microscope is so sweet this
is going to make it so much easier oh
there's more B pins than I thought on
this corner I thought it was one but
it's four maybe may even six two things
I'm worried about with this task is
number one I don't know how many times
you can bend it this way and that before
it just snaps right off number two I
don't know if these are solid gold or
just plated and I worry that if I were
to grab it with like a plier that I
would strip off a coating and then it
would no longer function as it's
supposed to do you know the answer to
these questions I do not I'm still out
of four confidence but I don't know if I
can do it in an hour but maybe I can do
it in 10 minutes I really don't know I'm
going to start with a spudger and the
microscope and let's go oh my God the
spudger is like wider than the gap
between Rose I may not be able to use
this tool okay I might use a razor blade
instead
okay the other thing I don't know is how
straight do they need to be what's the
margin for error looking at the socket
each pin has a hole so if it's off a bit
it should just get snapped into place
that's the theory not snapped in the bad
way snapped in the good way you don't
want to have to force it but like it's
got a tiny bit of give at least almost
looks like I'm done here but but then
when you turn it this way you're like oh
yeah those I need a helping hand so cuz
I I can I use my nose just the focus
okay so I previously was working on
these ones and now I'm going to go over
to this one so this is a mechanical
pencil and the tip is a hollow cylinder
and apparently you can actually fit the
pins in that Hollow cylinder and then
just manipulate them that way I think I
can give that a shot cuz I love the idea
of just being able to use a tool you
might have lying around the house I got
her on there now the question is will I
give have enough feedback to like know
what's happening that looks really
straight up and down we'll pull it off
did we get make progress oh yeah not bad
it's not perfect yet that one is still
wonky that one right on the corner I'm I
am digging this Pencil Trick but I don't
know if I can get these ones cuz they're
so leaned over they're touching the
neighbor yeah I don't think this pencil
is going to work for this application
all right where's my trusty razor blade
this is like when Luke just uses the
force instead of that tracking
system I think I'm I'm pretty good here
guys going into this I thought the
definition of bent pin was like really
leaned over and now I'm realizing it
might just be like a little leaned over
and that is worrisome
aha oh she's in all right let's send
it let's go 21 and A2 minutes CPU
information AMD ryzen 5700 x 8 core
processor plof that's the win condition
you see plof you win Cent is running
fine all the numbers are within
expectations so I'd say we're done we
made the money I hope the other guys are
doing at least this well but
who
[Music]
knows all right what do we got it's it
looks like a couple of rows are bent but
I think maybe I can get them all at the
same time with like a razor or something
I like to stick it onto something a
little more substantial to hold on to
just to make it easier so i' got some
double-sided tape on a cork here
probably better than a half dozen bent
pins but they're not very bent this is
almost like Not Bent enough like I don't
think I would have tried to sell this on
eBay I would have tried to fix it I'm
pretty happy with that to be
honest I think that's pretty
good I think this is a broken ship that
someone just kind of creatively bent cuz
I would have tried to fix that myself
all right here goes nothing
3700x running 3600 mahz voltages are
good CPU looks good let's see if we
Windows here we go
that guy again everything looks okay to
me let's see a c bench yeah not too
[Music]
bad M let's take a look at your chip
okay this one I probably the one labeled
me three pins on the very corner it
seems oh and I see maybe one that's bent
in the bottom right corner by the
triangle so three missing pins and a
slightly bent pin all right but three
pins all beside other on the edge there
and like the most open Edge the corner
I'm probably I I think
I'm we'll find
out the confidence is jumping up yeah
jumping all over the place right like uh
all
[Applause]
right I I am not having fun I think even
if my life depended on this I would die
I like genuinely would not be able to
get this
done ah I I think it's dust yeah I think
I got to call it I'm sorry no worries
man you just give it a good
try I hear you need some help Elijah had
some trouble with uh soldering on some
missing pins there I have tons of
soldering experience and working on
small electronics so I figured I might
be able to do something all right so I'm
I'm going to give a shot uh so yellow
one to five then how confident are you
probably about to six okay that's off
The Confident all right take a look all
right yeah he uh he mashed that one
pretty good eh see for me it's not the
getting them off part that's going to be
difficult it's the getting them back on
part is going to be fun first things
first probably try just straightening
out the ones that are still there are
you still at a six uh steadily dropping
down to a
four so glad this isn't like a for real
these things cuz I would have been fired
no way all done all done got one that's
time
heck so how many more do you have to do
uh eight okay that's not too bad though
you think it's a viable side
hustle not replacing pins unbending them
sure but if you're replacing them
there's no feasible way to make a dollar
off this all right thank
you now it's my turn oh dude oh there's
a bad one I don't want any hints I don't
want know how oh dude there oh there's
two like that oh dang those are both
pretty mangled and there's a fair number
of other ones with minor bends all along
the edges here what did they do to you
my poor boy check it out just like the
Scribe driver but a mechanical pencil
that is awesome yeah where do I get it
uh nowhere yet yeah got them wait you
started already yeah jeez Jordan hey you
were poking at pins before well I was
just I was looking at it I was looking
at it what I want to do is I want to
really get under that pin and see if I
can get it to slightly less bent over
without ripping it off if I rip it off
I'm going to have to put a new pin on it
which means I need a donor CPU and I
need a lot more time it's hard to get
under this
guy um you can really see boys that this
is the smallest Flathead in the iix it
kit and it's still kind of hard to get
it under there
wait I figured out what they did oh I
think they put it into the socket the
wrong way Jordan I wonder if they like
had it the wrong had it oriented the
wrong way or something dude that totally
done uh I think I may have nailed it and
the thing is it doesn't have to be
completely straight y it just has to go
in that'll get in there hey hey hey
she's in now just because she's in the
socket doesn't mean I want to fire up
the board yet I want to see if I like
really mashed one down because if I fire
it up while I've got a pin Mash
down who knows what's going to happen
right at least that way I get another
shot at
it you only get one shot one opportunity
okay okay I'm ready it's my okay so it
took me 15 minutes ryzen 5 3500 how much
I pay for this thing 30 bucks 30 bucks
bucks dude 15 minutes
I did it
faster well not the same CPU the point
is that aside from some overhead here I
can afford to pay myself 80 bucks an
hour to fix this CPU dude I'm feeling
good challenge number two for Mr lus I
get a bonus CPU he gets two cuz neither
of them is worth that much that's why
they call me the boner oh dear cuz I get
a bonus CPU and bonus Tech
tips okay sorry what are we talking
about this time I get a
3500x this also seems like it's not in
very bad shape wait is this just fine
they said it's missing a pen I couldn't
find it now occasionally you're going to
buy stuff that's for parts and it's just
going to be dead uh okay stop the clock
I think I'm ready to test this thing
because I do not see a missing or bent
pin on it well she went in the socket
easily yeah nothing was bent on it
before this fires up or doesn't what's
my potential profit here uh 15 20 bucks
okay oh I just saw the keyboard light up
holy crap did we just get a forart CPU
that's just perfectly fine no
way six core processor all six cores
there they freaking go she's turbo in
baby yep and she seems like she's
working just
[Music]
fine now what if I told you that
actually is missing a pin a missing pin
doesn't NE necessarily mean a broken CPU
though sometimes they have unused pins
or ground pins that are extra FAL pins
if you
will dude I feel bad about missing it
though naughty lus eyes are getting old
man here pop it out we'll take a look
and there she is yep how'd everybody do
uh so James took about 20 minutes how'd
yours go took me about 8 minutes and I
got it working fine how about Elijah uh
Elijah had a bad time did we sabotage
Elijah has never soldered before and he
had one was missing three pins in the
corner and uh it didn't go well Justus
ended up cleaning it up and getting one
pin back onto it in the time allowed
it's it's been through some something to
watch for is sometimes you can get away
with sticking a little piece of metal
into the socket that's as long as you
can get a good contact here I actually
had a CPU that I put into my parents
system an old Tri cor I think it worked
for about 10 years like that with a
broken off pin on the CPU right yep but
with a little slightly over long piece
of metal in the socket so it would make
contact should we try I was thinking
maybe if that's memory Channel B maybe
we could run it in single channel that
CPU I dropped that Zeon back in the day
where I dented the corner of it it did
still work yeah just five of I believe
six memory
channels no way no way there could still
be issues are all of those pins memory
Channel B I'll double check cuz if they
aren't then it might still work but
maybe one of our PCI Lanes is not
functioning properly right who knows
that's all memory B dude she's in
Windows she's in Windows brother I
cannot believe that let's run the
numbers James should be able to sell
this CPU for about
$135 and we're not able to completely
ignore the cost of our tools but they
are good for more than just unbending
pins so let's take away a couple of
bucks from his profit for that that
leaves him with $64 of profit for just
over 20 minutes of work a rate of $179
an hour not too shabby assuming he can
keep that pace up as for Team Elijah he
didn't have such a good time after 2
hours his 5800 X only works with a
single memory Channel now he might still
be able to sell that I'll be it at a
reduced price but he wouldn't be making
even close cl to minimum wage as for
Jordan's 3700x well doesn't have quite
the profit potential of James or
Elijah's chips but he made up for it by
being quick he should be able to get
close to 40 bucks after expenses or
around 285 an hour though there's no way
that that's a sustainable Pace as for me
I spent about 16 minutes on my 3500 and
really I just used the Precision
screwdriver so I should see about $19 of
profit coming back $71 an hour if you're
playing along at home as for the 3500x
well I didn't spend any time fixing this
one and I could get 20 bucks of profit
there too and I'm only out the time it
took to test it and ship it not too bad
but is this a viable side hustle well I
think so but there are some caveats
there is a lot of upfront risk I'd say
it's important to make sure that you are
picking chips with good potential profit
picking ones where the seller clearly
lays out what's wrong with them so you
can claim something back if the issue is
something else and try to get chips with
as few bent pins as possible so you're
not wasting a ton of time before you can
get right to this segue to our sponsor
rocket money quick how many streaming
services are you paying for okay now
quick how many of them do you actually
use if your answer isn't all of them
then rocket money can help their app
rounds up all of your subscriptions and
lets you cancel them in just a couple of
TAPS that's right all your subscriptions
even the ones that you completely forgot
were draining your bank account heck
they'll even cancel them for you so you
can spend more time saving money using
their budgeting feature it can analyze
your spending habits and categorize
where your money is going so when you
get close to the cap that you set rocket
money will go hey dude let's take it
easy now okay also for those payments
that you just can't get away from like
phone payments and such rocket money can
even negotiate those bills for you so
you can save a buck or two so join over
5 million rocket money users today who
are saving more and spending less go to
Rocket
money.com or click the link in the video
description to get started for free or
unlock even more features with premium
if you guys enjoyed this video maybe
you'll like watching us fix bent pins in
a CPU socket that can be even more
finicky than this